The submitted paper constructs a polynomial-time algorithm for finding all squares (that is, substrings of the form $xx$) in a given compressed 
string $w$, which is represented by a context-free grammar generating $\{w\}$ (known as a straight-line program, SLP).

Similar problems has been studied before. Apostolico et al. (ICALP 1992) have proposed a parallel algorithm for solving this problem for 
uncompressed $w$. The ideas of their algorithm were later employed by Gasieniec et al. (SWAT 1996), who claimed an algorithm for finding 
squares in an LZ-compressed string (a somewhat less general case than an SLP), but did not present the details. Recently, Matsubara et al. 
("Testing square-freeness of strings compressed by balanced straight line program", CATS 2009) proposed an efficient algorithm for the special 
case of SLPs, in which the parse tree of the string is balanced.

The submission deals with the most general case so far, and the new polynomial-time algorithm is certainly interesting. 
A major problem with the paper is its poor writing style: already the definition of the main data structure is unclear and incomplete 
(so that one is left to guess what is being computed), the key earlier results on which the paper is based are referenced in unpredictable 
places or not referenced at all. It is not easy to reconstruct the algorithm from the given draft.

I think that the paper requires total rewriting. The author should take more care of presenting his results to the readers 
(and to the audience, if the paper is accepted). The writing should be planned so that the main earlier ideas are recollected, 
the main new ideas are communicated, and the algorithm is presented in the way that it can be easily read and implemented.



Note to the author:

Though it might be interesting to know about the migration of mice, it is more important to cite all relevant literature on the problem 
(at least the three papers mentioned in my report), because this is the context in which the new paper appears.